

# 2026-02-25

# Welcome Back - It's WEDNESDAY, February 25, 2026

## Getting in to your VMs 

- Go to https://class.hypertheory-labs.com/guacamole
- User id is your Student number (e.g. `student16`)
- Password is whatever you changed it to yesterday
- **Let me know if you have issues getting into your VMs, please**

## Today

- Getting My Code
- Diff Changes
    - Added Test Project
    - NpgSql Data Source
    - Show Trace
    - Show an API Interaction
    - Validation and Types

### Testing

Discuss the "Testing Levels"

- Unit / Unit Integration
- System Tests
- System Integration Tests

- Let's acknowledge some facts:
    - You cannot test yourself out of bugs. 
        - Bugs increase linearly with the number of lines of code.
        - Tests are code.
    - We have finite time. Not shipping code costs money. Shipping bad code also costs money. How do we find a balance?
    - The more we break encapsulation with tests, the more we are "cementing in" a design.
    - What's more important (and it is all important, by the way):
        - That we've implemented particular algorithms correctly?
        - That our code interacts with the framework, libraries, etc. correctly?
        - That we test that the API "works" as advertised? - System Test
        - That our "app" interacts with our downstream "backing services" correctly?
            - "correctly" **when** exactly?


Starting with System Tests - Create a Test Plan for Vendors.

- Happy Path
    - "Gray Box" Testing

- [ ] Cleanup of Vendors
- [ ] The Unit Tests
- [ ] The Mock Object For Notifications

    - Checking the Database
        - The creation time thing?
    - Checking through the API
        - Could check with a `GET /vendors`
        - Maybe a 201?
- Edges
    - AuthN/AuthZ
        - Only a Manager of the Software Center can Add A Vendor
        - Only members of the software team can get the Vendor list.
    - OIDC/Oauth2/JWT
    - dotnet user-jwts
    - Validation?
        - Validation in 10 - Generation

- The Software Catalog
    - Design Sprint
    - Requirements
        - Members of the Software Team (including, but not limited to managers) can add catalog items.
            - The item must have:
                - A vendor
                - A title
                - A version
                - (note, each version is a different item)

